---
title: "A How-To on Laser-Induced Fluorescence Microscopy - Part 1: Excitation"
math: true
date: 2024-07-02
draft: true
---

Fluorescence microscopy has become essentially a point-and-click technique for many researchers, likely due to the commercial availability of all-in-one microscope setups. Some might disagree, but I don't necessarily think every fluorescence microscopist needs to know all the optics of their commercial instrument. Every microscopist should, however, know how the optics might limit or otherwise affect their final image. This in turn depends very strongly on what kind of fluorescence experiment they are doing.

#### Microscope Geometries

There are essentially two common microscope geometries: upright or inverted. The difference is very simple. In an upright microscope, the objective lens is positioned above the sample and looks down onto it. In an inverted microscope, the objective lens gets positioned below the sample and looks up at it. Most of the differences are issues of convenience, but the inverted design is very good for looking at solution-phase samples with an oil-immersion objective lens. The solution will sit on top of the coverslip while the oil and objective can image from below. On the other hand, the upright geometry could make it possible to look at opaque substrates such as silicon or gold (although you will likely need to put in some work to get the illumination right). 

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

#### Excitation Sources

These posts are focused (no pun intended) on laser fluorescence microscopy, so most of the excitation will be discussed with lasers as a source. That being said, many of the configurations used with laser sources come out of older ways of illuminating a sample with a lamp. Plus, as nice as laser-induced fluorescence is, you'll want to have some way of looking at your surface and getting your objects of interest into view.

The

This is LaTeX. $x \times y$ 